just spread angling for field unless an
gt-r there he goes in this era of
technical one-upmanship between nations
it seems Nissen is out perfected forth
near-perfect group a car Japan's
response to the Sierra the Commodore and
the bmw m3 is this Jim a four-wheel
drive four-wheel steer twin-turbo
6-cylinder 24-valve rocket technology is
the message and listen has used the
group a rules to the max to create the
ultimate touring car of the series of
the father and the father 50 horsepower
se put us through a 10-inch tire in the
rear with a 630 horsepower a lot heavier
that would bring us through four wheels
you heard right he said 630 brake
horsepower using the most sophisticated
milking methods listen motorsport is
dragging massive horsepower from his six
cylinder turbo but normally having this
much grunts motoring away under the
bonnet would be as little use as it
would be wasted in wheel spin ultimately
killing the tires on most Roubaix cars
that's why four-wheel drive technology
was embraced distributing that much
power through four rather than two
wheels allows the use of radical
horsepower however merely driving all
four wheels at the same speed is
undesirable controlling the prescribed
amount of four-wheel drive is the
critical factor this onboard computer
receives constant messages from three
sources regarding the behavior of the
car a g-force sensor measures
longitudinal and lateral forces there
for monitoring braking acceleration and
cornering loads a toothed drive on the
rear dip output shaft monitors rear
wheel spin and each wheel has a speed
sensor and the information is logged by
the brain the brain deciphers the data
and according to the situation commands
a solenoid control in a device called an
ETS pump for example if the rear wheels
brake traction the ETS pump varies the
amount of oil pressure to the transfer
case or foot simply gives the car more
front-wheel drive
the transfer case clutch pack works on a
similar principle to an automatic
gearbox in your standard Road car so
basically how the system works is that
when the rear wheels lose traction
directs drive to the front we then have
a four-wheel drive car and we can
program that by our our silicon chip so
the car has has a situation we're on
fast corners where there are high G's
the car works is basically a two-wheel
drive car where it's on a slow corner
with low G's the car is a very much a
forward drive car so out of slow corners
it's great around fast corners it's
almost the same as a Commodore or a
Sierra to complicate the issue the brain
can be programmed with silicon chips
called eproms to react in different ways
using data logging equipment all this
information can be recorded and used to
achieve a better setup prior to the race
when the setup is right the equipment is
removed this is just some of the
information used a tested Perth's wanna
race weight reveals the variations in
four-wheel drive pressure from the ETS
pump the forces on the car are plotted
using 1/2 G increments and the actual
speed of the individual wheels is
recorded using the time scale along the
bottom of the graph this information can
be cross-referenced and the cars track
position can be pinpointed then if the
Gibson team adjusts the car's suspension
or alters the four-wheel drive settings
the information can be re-examined to
decide if it worked or not
once they've programmed the GTR to
behave the drivers have three other
four-wheel-drive control options these
are mode switches if it rains Richards
or scape it's the appropriate switch and
instantly they've got perfect four-wheel
drive overriding the brains normal
pressure variations this is not your
average touring car
people ask me how do you get used to
driving and being fully arrived against
children really that they're getting use
of a takes care of itself in a way the
object of the exercise is to get around
the track as fast as you can and you
make small adjustments at each corner
depending on on how the car drives out
of it but my first impression when I
Drive it really properly I suppose you'd
say Turin Park was the fact that between
slow corners between two corners that is
exceptionally fast incredibly so that
you've hardly got a little bit of rev
counter you've just puts from the
accelerator and accelerate so fast you
just change gear and go to the next gear
it's incredibly fast that's that's the
first impression that I had of it there
is one floor the car is heavy and that
has an effect on brakes and tires this
weekend is the big test will the
technology be a help or a handicap when
it comes to attempting a win in
Australia's toughest race